hey guys Sylvie press here and welcome
to today's video in this video I'm gonna
be talking about the end of Google Ads
average position and if you're not
familiar back in February of 2019
earlier this year Google announced that
they will be sunsetting the average
position metric that will only be
available until September 2019 of this
year but with the death of average
position Google has given life to new
metrics that can better allow us to
understand how our ads are showing on
the search results page now with this
video I really want to get into showing
you and showcasing you live examples on
why the Google ads average position
metric is flawed in my opinion and why
these new metrics Google is implementing
are very good and very solid and how we
can go ahead and better understand and
utilize these new metrics for optimizing
our accounts and realizing the vast
majority of potential that we have been
leaving on the table in these prior
years by not having better position
metrics to base our ads so let's go
ahead and get started and hop into a
live account and let's do this alright
let's first get into why the average
position metric is flawed and why Google
is rolling out the changes that they are
so first and foremost let's go ahead and
look at average position so all average
position is it's just exactly what it
sounds like it's the on average what
position your ad is showing up in but
there's a difference between position
and location just because your ad is
showing in the second spot doesn't mean
it's the second spot of the top of the
page in one of the top three ads it can
be the second spot of the bottom of the
page so write that that in itself is
already a huge flaw because it doesn't
give us context to the location so the
way we remedy that with average position
is we segment so we would segment with
top versus other and then this would
give us a better understanding of is how
our ads are performing based on location
so for example right here Google search
top this tells us where our ads are in
the top three spots how they're
performing on average so for example our
average position in the top spot is
about two and then other meaning the
bottom of the bottom of the page it's
about three point seven and then from
there we can get a better understanding
of how we're performing from both
locations but there's a huge gap with
this and that's the fact that ok great
on the top position our ad is showing on
a
two on the second spot but this doesn't
tell us at all how often our ad is
showing in the top location all it's
saying is on average when we are in the
top we're in that second spot but what
percentage of the time are we actually
in the top and that's what average
positions
seriously lacks and that's why Google is
going to be implementing these new
metrics and they created these new
metrics for us to use that are
percentage based and they are impression
share metrics so now that we understand
why Google is doing what they're doing
let's go ahead and get into these new
metrics so you can better understand
them and be prepared by September by
optimizing your accounts with these new
metrics all right so to find these new
metrics Google is rolling out just go
ahead and click on your columns tab
click on modify columns and then under
competitive metrics this is we're gonna
find all these new metrics so the new
metrics Google is rolling out is search
top impression share search absolute top
impression share and then last but not
least click Share these are the three
new metrics that Google has released so
that we can combat the death of average
position so just go ahead an click apply
and then now let's go ahead and get into
what each one of these things do so for
example to start off with search top and
fresh and share so search top impression
share this tells us what percentage of
the time our ads are in the at least in
the one of the three top ad spots so
when the Google search results page you
have three ads at the top three ads at
the bottom so a search top impression
share is gonna give us a percentage of
how often our ads are located within
those one of those top three positions
then search absolute top impression
share is going to give us a percentage
of what percentage of the time is our ad
in that number1 position so we are in
the absolute top the number one spot and
then the last metric is click Share so
click Share gives us a percentage of all
the potential keywords in our account
all the potential clicks that we could
receive based on our targeting and our
keywords and all that good stuff what
percentage of the market are we
receiving right so the same way you have
market share what percentage of the
market you're dominating with Google Ads
and click share what percentage of the
clicks that are available to you based
on your keywords and targeting are you
actually receiving so these three new
metrics are going to allow us to have
such a better understanding in terms of
how competitive we are in the
marketplace and what percentage of the
marketplace were actually receiving well
from a optimization standpoint from a
reporting standpoint if in the case that
you realize hey guess what we're only
showing up in one of the top three
locations 31% of the time that should be
a red flag to you from an optimization
standpoint that maybe you need to work
on improving your quality scores so you
can get your ad rank higher or maybe you
need to adjust your max cost per click
bid or maybe your bid strategy is
suffocating your bid prices and they're
setting your bids too low if you're
using an automated bid strategy so all
these things kind of come into play or
maybe you need to test your ads more
often to increase your click-through
rate or write use ad extensions so these
metrics can give us a better
understanding of how competitive we are
and how many how much more improvement
we have available for our counts because
a lot of the times we can think that our
campaign is scaled and we've reached
especially with search campaigns that
we've reached all the potential that we
can for our keywords and our targeting
but with these competitive metrics we
can really understand of how much of the
market we actually are dominating and
then from a reporting standpoint you can
report to your client last month we were
thirty one percent of time in one of the
top three positions and now this month
we are forty percent of time in one of
the top three position so that's another
metric you can add to your reporting to
show your client the great work you're
doing or for yourself as a business
owner to just manage your account if
you're doing this internally yourself so
that's gonna be it for this video let me
know your thoughts on average position
are you for this change are you against
this change let me know your thoughts
and I advise each and every one of you
watching this video to go into your
account and start playing with these new
metrics get comfortable with them don't
wait until September and and do a
side-by-side comparison of your average
position versus these new metrics so you
can better understand them and see the
impact that these new metrics have so
that's it go ahead and follow along and
subscribe to this channel if you got
some value from this I create new
content every week and I'll see you next
time take care
[Music]